omniscidb/docs/source/quickstart/build.rst, before:

.. OmniSciDB Quickstart

Build OmniSciDB
===============

.. note::

    Before you begin building, install the appropriate :doc:``./deps``.


OmniSciDB uses `CMake <https://cmake.org/>`_ for its build system. The following commands will build a simple, ``CUDA`` enabled build using 4 CPU threads:

.. code-block:: shell

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=debug ..
    make -j 4

The following ``cmake``/``ccmake`` options can enable/disable different features:

* ``-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=release`` - Build type and compiler options to use.
*                                Options are ``Debug``, ``Release``, ``RelWithDebInfo``, ``MinSizeRel``, and unset.
* ``-DENABLE_ASAN=off`` - Enable address sanitizer. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_AWS_S3=on`` - Enable AWS S3 support, if available. Default is ``on``.
* ``-DENABLE_CALCITE_DELETE_PATH=on`` - Enable Calcite Delete Path. Default is ``on``.
* ``-DENABLE_CALCITE_UPDATE_PATH=on`` - Enable Calcite Update Path. Default is ``on``.
* ``-DENABLE_CUDA=off`` - Disable CUDA. Default is ``on``.
* ``-DENABLE_CUDA_KERNEL_DEBUG=off`` - Enable debugging symbols for CUDA kernels. Will dramatically reduce kernel performance. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_DECODERS_BOUNDS_CHECKING=off`` - Enable bounds checking for column decoding. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_FOLLY=on`` - Use Folly. Default is ``on``.
* ``-DENABLE_IWYU=off`` - Enable include-what-you-use. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_JIT_DEBUG=off`` - Enable debugging symbols for the JIT. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_PROFILER=off`` - Enable google perftools. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_STANDALONE_CALCITE=off`` - Require standalone Calcite server. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_TESTS=on`` - Build unit tests. Default is ``on``.
* ``-DENABLE_TSAN=off`` - Enable thread sanitizer. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_CODE_COVERAGE=off`` - Enable code coverage symbols (clang only). Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENALBE_JAVA_REMOTE_DEBUG=on`` - Enable Java Remote Debug. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DMAPD_DOCS_DOWNLOAD=on`` - Download the latest master build of the documentation / ``docs.mapd.com``. Default is ``off``. **Note:** this is a >50MB download.
* ``-DPREFER_STATIC_LIBS=off`` - Static link dependencies, if available. Default is ``off``.

Commit message:

deps: macos: cleanup to allow for static builds
* deps: macos: cleanup to allow for static builds again

Quite a few changes required for static builds, which required bundling
our own versions of a few formula.

Also remove java managed by Homebrew as that appears to be broken in
10.15

Add zsh .zlogin file for 10.15

Fix libcrypto linking issue by placing Homebrew's version first in
DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH

fixup: deps: pin certain versions to prevent future upgrades breaking them

fixup: deps: move macos homebrew formulas to scripts dir

fixup: deps: macos: install bison++ via homebrew

fixup: importer cleaning, iconv only on mac

deps: macos: update libkml

deps: macos: fixup uriparser for static linking

fixup: deps: macos: gdal upgrade, build and link expat, minizip

fixup: allow shared thrift, cleanup xerces-c

* deps: macos: bump to boost 1.72.0

deps: macos: set visibility=global for boost

* deps: macos: rename apache-arrow to apache-arrow-omnisci

Homebrew has issues when trying to install old versions

deps: macos: remove python reqs from arrow

* deps: macos: re-add aws-sdk-cpp

* docs: build: mention static lib reqs for macos

* deps: macos: bump arrow to 0.16.0

omniscidb/docs/source/quickstart/build.rst, after:

.. OmniSciDB Quickstart

Build OmniSciDB
===============

.. note::

    Before you begin building, install the appropriate :doc:``./deps``.


OmniSciDB uses `CMake <https://cmake.org/>`_ for its build system. The following commands will build a simple, ``CUDA`` enabled build using 4 CPU threads:

.. code-block:: shell

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=debug ..
    make -j 4

.. note::

    macOS builds must be static linked, eg ``cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=debug -DPREFER_STATIC_LIBS=on ..``.

The following ``cmake``/``ccmake`` options can enable/disable different features:

* ``-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=release`` - Build type and compiler options to use.
*                                Options are ``Debug``, ``Release``, ``RelWithDebInfo``, ``MinSizeRel``, and unset.
* ``-DENABLE_ASAN=off`` - Enable address sanitizer. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_AWS_S3=on`` - Enable AWS S3 support, if available. Default is ``on``.
* ``-DENABLE_CALCITE_DELETE_PATH=on`` - Enable Calcite Delete Path. Default is ``on``.
* ``-DENABLE_CALCITE_UPDATE_PATH=on`` - Enable Calcite Update Path. Default is ``on``.
* ``-DENABLE_CUDA=off`` - Disable CUDA. Default is ``on``.
* ``-DENABLE_CUDA_KERNEL_DEBUG=off`` - Enable debugging symbols for CUDA kernels. Will dramatically reduce kernel performance. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_DECODERS_BOUNDS_CHECKING=off`` - Enable bounds checking for column decoding. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_FOLLY=on`` - Use Folly. Default is ``on``.
* ``-DENABLE_IWYU=off`` - Enable include-what-you-use. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_JIT_DEBUG=off`` - Enable debugging symbols for the JIT. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_PROFILER=off`` - Enable google perftools. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_STANDALONE_CALCITE=off`` - Require standalone Calcite server. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_TESTS=on`` - Build unit tests. Default is ``on``.
* ``-DENABLE_TSAN=off`` - Enable thread sanitizer. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENABLE_CODE_COVERAGE=off`` - Enable code coverage symbols (clang only). Default is ``off``.
* ``-DENALBE_JAVA_REMOTE_DEBUG=on`` - Enable Java Remote Debug. Default is ``off``.
* ``-DMAPD_DOCS_DOWNLOAD=on`` - Download the latest master build of the documentation / ``docs.mapd.com``. Default is ``off``. **Note:** this is a >50MB download.
* ``-DPREFER_STATIC_LIBS=off`` - Static link dependencies, if available. Default is ``off``.
